---
layout: post
title: "Homelab Updates (Late 2020 Edition)"
image: thinkcentre.jpg
category:
  - tech
  - homelab
---

Since the last update (all the way back in 2018), a lot of things have changed about my home server setup.

# Replacing the Proliant
{% include image.html path="power.jpg" caption="The entire new setup under load uses less power than the Proliant tower did when idling" width="25%" float="left" %}
While very flexible in terms of upgrades and modifications, the 4U HPE Proliant tower server I have been using since the start of 2018 proved itself to be quite inefficient. It drew an enormous amount of power, made quite a racket and in return did not offer a whole lot of performance.  

For the longest time (even before getting the Proliant), I had dreamed of a simplistic SFF PC sitting alongside a Synology NAS, and this is exactly what I've ended up with.

The ThinkCentre M93p is certainly not the newest system I could've chosen, however its popularity in corporate environments means it can be picked up from e-waste and e-recycling centres on the used market for relatively cheap prices, especially given the performance available.
My machine features a 4th generation i7 (full specs [here](https://wiki.fishys.space/doku.php?id=lab)) which [benchmarks many times faster](https://browser.geekbench.com/v4/cpu/compare/15561061?baseline=10417486) than the 2011-era Xeon in the HPE.

My Proxmox configuration remains largely unchanged from last post, with the migration being very straightforward.

{% include image.html path="firefox_Zoe3Sv510z.png" caption="The Synology DSM Interface" width="30%" float="right" %}
# Synology
To house my data, I needed something to replace the drive bays and RAID card in the HPE. My wallet was not a fan, but I eventually decided on a Synology DS218. It's quite overpriced for the specs you get, however I don't regret picking it up. The ARM CPU and puny amount of RAM are not a massive problem when this is not the primary application server.

Synology's DSM operating system is really rather swish, and is definitely the selling point of a Synology unit. Setting everything up was a breeze and performance is much more stable than the setup I was using before.

# Misc
For better wireless performance, I replaced my access point with a Vodafone THG3000. This is connected to a Ubiquiti Edgeswitch 24 Lite and routing is handled by an EdgeRouter X. 

My Pi 0W is still going strong running Pi-Hole, but the web server on my Pi 3B's has been changed from Apache to NGINX.

# Wiki
For more information and specs, I have a small Wiki where I note things down. It can be found at [wiki.fishys.space](https://fishys.space). Of course, it's hosted on the Thinkcentre in a Proxmox container.

# To-Dos
It's always nice to have some vague aspirations, so here's a few I have for my setup:
- Eventually replace my Edge equipment with UniFi. Potentially a Dream Machine?
- Set up some cheap CCTV cameras to record to UniFi Protect or Synology Surveillance Station
- Properly VLAN things out
- Set up a Windows AD Domain

# In Closing
As mentioned below, if you've any questions or comments you're welcome to chuck us a message or a Tweet.

Shoutout to [r/Homelab](https://reddit.com/r/homelab) for being nerdy and epic!